# A therapeutic chatbot offering emotional support for people in distress

## Goals
Designing and developing a therapeutic chatbot offering emotional support for people in distress using a large-scale dialogues dataset curated from Reddit.

## Abstract
Most people suffer from emotional distress due to going through a significant life change, financial crisis, being a caregiver or due to various physical and mental health conditions. Inability to regulate emotion in such episodes can potentially lead to self-destructive behavior such as substance abuse, self-harm or suicide. However, due to public and personal “stigma” associated with mental health, most people do not reach out for help. Even therapeutic consultations are limited and are not available 24/7 to support people when they are going through a traumatic episode. Therefore, it is important to assess the ability of AI driven chatbots to help people deal with emotional distress and help them regulate emotion.

We have curated a large-scale dialogues dataset from Reddit, which consists of dialogues between speakers and listeners, in which the speakers convey their ongoing issues and the listeners from the community offer emotional support to them in various ways. It is important to analyze such real-world data and identify the techniques that the listeners use when providing support to those in distress. These techniques can then be utilized in designing and developing automatic chatbots that can coherently and consistently provide therapeutic support to its users. With this project, we aim to recognize specific techniques used by humans when providing emotional support and incorporate them in developing a therapeutic neural chatbot.

The student is expected to:
* Explore the Reddit dialogues dataset and analyze the techniques used by humans when providing emotional support to people in distress
* Use these techniques and the data to design and develop a neural chatbot model
* Evaluate the responses generated by the chatbot using automatic metrics and human evaluation
